                  Software Package for 
          Java Programmming: A Student-Friendly Approach
                      Version 10
          Copyright (c) 2023 by Anthony J. Dos Reis

DISCLAIMER
----------

The files in this software package are provided to you on an "as 
is" basis for instructional purposes only, without any 
warranties, expressed or implied. The authors, contributors, and 
copyright holders of these files shall not be liable in any event 
for incidental, consequential, special, or punitive damages in 
connection with, or arising out of the distribution, performance, 
or use of these files. 


GETTING STARTED
---------------

Some helpful information on installing JDK, using notepad and 
nano, and compiling and running Java programs is in the file 
gettingstarted.txt. See errata.txt for a listing of any errors 
in the textbook.


SUGGESTIONS AND ERROR REPORTS
-----------------------------

If you have any suggestions for the next edition or error/typo 
reports on the software or the textbook, please sent them to me at 

dosreist@newpaltz.edu (preferred email address)
      or
aiwibird@gmail.com    (use only if dosreist@newpaltz.edu not working)
   

SAMPLE PROGRAMS FROM THE TEXTBOOK
---------------------------------

The file name for each sample program in the textbook consists of the
program's class name extended with ".java". For example, Program1 
in Chapter 1 is in the file Program1.java. 


HOMEWORK PROBLEMS
-----------------

The files whose names start with "Problems" contain homework 
problems for each chapter. For example, the files 
ProblemsChapter1.pdf and ProblemsChapter1.docx contain 
the problems for Chapter 1. 

The names of the Java source files for the homework problems 
start with the letter C followed by the chapter number, followed 
by the letter h, followed by the problem number. For example, 
C1h9.java is the Java program for problem 9 in Chapter 1.

Some of the homework problems are not really problems but 
"experiments" using features of Java that are not covered in the 
corresponding chapters. In most cases, they preview features of 
Java that are covered in a later chapter. 

These "experiment" problems are included because it is often the 
case that it is easier to learn how to use some feature of Java by 
using it than by reading about it. Doing these problems is optional.
Not doing them will not break the continuity of the material 
presented by the textbook. 


SAMPLE EXAMS
------------

The names of the files for the sample exams start with the word
"SampleExam" or "SampleFinalExam". Each exam has two files: 
one without the answers and one with the answers.


Extra Chapter
-------------

Chapter 17 on GUI programming and applets is in the file Chapter17.pdf.
