Getting Started
---------------

1) Using the command line.
   
   Linux, Mac, Raspberry Pi: 

     Activate the Terminal program. Then enter

        cd Desktop

     which positions the computer on the Desktop folder. 
     Then enter

        cd <softwarepackage>

     where <softwarepackage> is the name of the folder
     that contain the software for the book. This
     assumes you installed the software package folder
     on your Desktop. You can then enter commands via 
     the keyboard. For example, you can enter

        javac Program1.java


   Windows 

     Enter in the search window on the initial screen

       command prompt 

     Right click on the command prompt icon.
     Click on "pin to task bar". Then the command prompt icon 
     will appear on the Windows taskbar. Thus, to use the 
     command line interface, you simply click on the command
     prompt icon on the taskbar. Then enter

        cd Desktop
        cd <softwarepackage>   
 
     where <softwarepackage> is the name of the folder that 
     contains the software package for the book. This assumes
     you installed the software package on the Desktop. Once
     the computer is on the folder for the software package,
     you can enter commands. For example, you can enter

        javac Program1.java



2) Installing JDK

   Linux and Raspberry Pi     

      Activate the software manager. Search for JDK. Select
      the default listed. Click on install.

   Windows and Mac
      Search for JDK download. Click on link to Oracle. Select
      the JDK for your system. Follow directions to install.
                                                                  
   On Windows, you also need to add the complete name of the 
   folder that contains javac.exe to the Path environment variable. 
   Somewhat tricky to do so you may want to get help. Also the
   specific procedure may be dependent on your system. So
   the directions below may not be correct for your system

   First find the folder that contains your javac.exe program.
   It's probably in 

      c:\program files\java\jdk-xx\bin (where xx is version number)
      
   When you find it, you should see the complete folder name at the top
   of the window
      
         Right click
         Copy address
      
   Now you have to paste the copied address into the path variable:

         Find the Settings program and run it
         Search for Edit System Environment 
         Click to invoke
         Click on Path
         Click on Edit
         Click on New
         In box that appears, right click and paste copied address
         Exit all the windows you are in.

      To see if you can invoke javac, start command line program and enter

         javac

      If you get a long list of arguments that can be used when invoking
      javac, then you are all set.
     

3) Using nano and notepad

   Start the command line interface (see directions in (1) above).
   Enter on the command line

     nano <filename>          (on Linux, Mac, Raspberry Pi)
   or
     notepad <filename>       (on Windows)

   For example,

     nano Program1.java
   or
     notepad Program1.java

   For help on nano, after starting nano, enter Alt-h. For help
   on notepad, click on the help option on menu bar.

   If you start notepad by entering just notepad (no file name),
   you can then save what you entered by clicking on "File" and 
   then "Save as" (don't click on "Save"). You can then enter 
   the file name in the window on the bottom of the screen. 
   Before you click on Save" on the bottom right of the window, 
   in the File type text box on the bottom of screen, select 
   "All files". If you don't do this, notepad tacks on ".txt" 
   to whatever file name you enter. You don't have to do this 
   if you specify the name of the file when you invoke notepad.
   
   
     

